What skills are required for Security Guards?
Importance	Skills
   	Active Listening - Giving full attention to what other people are saying, taking time to understand the points being made, asking questions as appropriate, and not interrupting at inappropriate times.
   	Monitoring - Monitoring/Assessing performance of yourself, other individuals, or organizations to make improvements or take corrective action.
   	Speaking - Talking to others to convey information effectively.
   	Critical Thinking - Using logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems.
   	Coordination - Adjusting actions in relation to others' actions.
   	Judgment and Decision Making - Considering the relative costs and benefits of potential actions to choose the most appropriate one.
   	Reading Comprehension - Understanding written sentences and paragraphs in work-related documents.
   	Social Perceptiveness - Being aware of others' reactions and understanding why they react as they do.
   	Active Learning - Understanding the implications of new information for both current and future problem-solving and decision-making.
   	Persuasion - Persuading others to change their minds or behavior.
   	Service Orientation - Actively looking for ways to help people.
   	Writing - Communicating effectively in writing as appropriate for the needs of the audience.
   	Learning Strategies - Selecting and using training/instructional methods and procedures appropriate for the situation when learning or teaching new things.
   	Complex Problem Solving - Identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions.
   	Negotiation - Bringing others together and trying to reconcile differences.
   	Time Management - Managing one's own time and the time of others.





What knowledge is needed to be a Security Guard?
Importance	Knowledge
   	Public Safety and Security - Knowledge of relevant equipment, policies, procedures, and strategies to promote effective local, state, or national security operations for the protection of people, data, property, and institutions.
   	Customer and Personal Service - Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services. This includes customer needs assessment, meeting quality standards for services, and evaluation of customer satisfaction.
   	English Language - Knowledge of the structure and content of the English language including the meaning and spelling of words, rules of composition, and grammar.
   	Computers and Electronics - Knowledge of circuit boards, processors, chips, electronic equipment, and computer hardware and software, including applications and programming.
   	Administration and Management - Knowledge of business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, human resources modeling, leadership technique, production methods, and coordination of people and resources.
   	Education and Training - Knowledge of principles and methods for curriculum and training design, teaching and instruction for individuals and groups, and the measurement of training effects.
   	Telecommunications - Knowledge of transmission, broadcasting, switching, control, and operation of telecommunications systems.
   	Administrative - Knowledge of administrative and office procedures and systems such as word processing, managing files and records, stenography and transcription, designing forms, and workplace terminology.
   	Law and Government - Knowledge of laws, legal codes, court procedures, precedents, government regulations, executive orders, agency rules, and the democratic political process.
   	Therapy and Counseling - Knowledge of principles, methods, and procedures for diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of physical and mental dysfunctions, and for career counseling and guidance.
   	Psychology - Knowledge of human behavior and performance; individual differences in ability, personality, and interests; learning and motivation; psychological research methods; and the assessment and treatment of behavioral and affective disorders.
   	Medicine and Dentistry - Knowledge of the information and techniques needed to diagnose and treat human injuries, diseases, and deformities. This includes symptoms, treatment alternatives, drug properties and interactions, and preventive health-care measures.
   	Foreign Language - Knowledge of the structure and content of a foreign (non-English) language including the meaning and spelling of words, rules of composition and grammar, and pronunciation.
   	Communications and Media - Knowledge of media production, communication, and dissemination techniques and methods. This includes alternative ways to inform and entertain via written, oral, and visual media.
   	Transportation - Knowledge of principles and methods for moving people or goods by air, rail, sea, or road, including the relative costs and benefits.
   	Personnel and Human Resources - Knowledge of principles and procedures for personnel recruitment, selection, training, compensation and benefits, labor relations and negotiation, and personnel information systems.
   	Sociology and Anthropology - Knowledge of group behavior and dynamics, societal trends and influences, human migrations, ethnicity, cultures, and their history and origins.
   	Geography - Knowledge of principles and methods for describing the features of land, sea, and air masses, including their physical characteristics, locations, interrelationships, and distribution of plant, animal, and human life.
   	Production and Processing - Knowledge of raw materials, production processes, quality control, costs, and other techniques for maximizing the effective manufacture and distribution of goods.
   	Economics and Accounting - Knowledge of economic and accounting principles and practices, the financial markets, banking, and the analysis and reporting of financial data.
   	Philosophy and Theology - Knowledge of different philosophical systems and religions. This includes their basic principles, values, ethics, ways of thinking, customs, practices, and their impact on human culture.
   	History and Archeology - Knowledge of historical events and their causes, indicators, and effects on civilizations and cultures.
   	Design - Knowledge of design techniques, tools, and principles involved in production of precision technical plans, blueprints, drawings, and models.
   	Biology - Knowledge of plant and animal organisms, their tissues, cells, functions, interdependencies, and interactions with each other and the environment.
   	Building and Construction - Knowledge of materials, methods, and the tools involved in the construction or repair of houses, buildings, or other structures such as highways and roads.





Work Styles
Importance	Styles
   	Integrity - Job requires being honest and ethical.
   	Self-Control - Job requires maintaining composure, keeping emotions in check, controlling anger, and avoiding aggressive behavior, even in very difficult situations.
   	Dependability - Job requires being reliable, responsible, and dependable, and fulfilling obligations.
   	Cooperation - Job requires being pleasant with others on the job and displaying a good-natured, cooperative attitude.
   	Concern for Others - Job requires being sensitive to others' needs and feelings and being understanding and helpful on the job.
   	Attention to Detail - Job requires being careful about detail and thorough in completing work tasks.
   	Stress Tolerance - Job requires accepting criticism and dealing calmly and effectively with high-stress situations.
   	Independence - Job requires developing one's own ways of doing things, guiding oneself with little or no supervision, and depending on oneself to get things done.
   	Adaptability/Flexibility - Job requires being open to change (positive or negative) and to considerable variety in the workplace.
   	Leadership - Job requires a willingness to lead, take charge, and offer opinions and direction.
   	Social Orientation - Job requires preferring to work with others rather than alone, and being personally connected with others on the job.
   	Initiative - Job requires a willingness to take on responsibilities and challenges.
   	Innovation - Job requires creativity and alternative thinking to develop new ideas for and answers to work-related problems.
   	Analytical Thinking - Job requires analyzing information and using logic to address work-related issues and problems.
   	Persistence - Job requires persistence in the face of obstacles.
   	Achievement/Effort - Job requires establishing and maintaining personally challenging achievement goals and exerting effort toward mastering tasks.